sol - documentation
===================

1a. INTRO.
----------
sol is a command-line program and 
domain-specific-language to describe 
percussion solkattu. It is styled as a 
declarative language with with the capacity 
to process stored procedures.

Primarily, the goal of this system was to 
describe and verify sequences for notetaking. 
This means that there will be near to no 
extensions to syntax for control flow 
constructs in the future.

1b. INVOCATION.
---------------
Invocation of the runtime is quite simple. 
The argument 'f' supplies a sol file to the 
engine, while arguments 'm' and 'a' print 
out statistics.

2. SYNTAX.
----------
The basic unit of annotation is the Figure, 
or a single number describing the syllable, 
usually in the absolute measurement, maathirai. Example:
4
(expected size 4)

As semi-syntactical sugar, there exists a container 
construct called a Gap, which roughly corresponds 
to the concept of "kaarvai." This is enclosed in 
parentheses:

Example:
4 (2) 4 (2) 4 (2)
(expected size 18)

A gap is required to be flat. That is, nesting 
of gaps or any other container constructs is 
disallowed.

Arguably the most critical container is the 
sequence, which can be named and called 
like a function in traditional programming 
languages.

Example:
seq a {
4 (2) 4 (2) 4
}

The expected value of this program is considered 
to be zero, because it has not been invoked yet. 
Invocation occurs when the input is simply a literal 
referencing the sequence (in this case, "a").

Like gaps, sequences are required to be flat, in that 
they cannot encompass other sequence declarations inside. 
In addition, they cannot recursively call other sequences.

3. ADDITIONAL CONSTRUCTS AND QUIRKS
----------
Annotations exist for record keeping, and in the future 
may allow for some form of formal verification. 

The two core constructs are "tal" and "nad", referencing 
talam and nadai respectively. tal is a procedure that 
annotates the length of one talam cycle (as akshara), while 
nad annotates the value of one akshara (in maatirai).

It is worth noting that both annotations cannot be invoked 
inside a container. This is to avoid unnecessary design 
cases when it comes to the execution engine.

Z. FOOTNOTES
-------------
document last updated 2026-08-31 15:06
